Add ERC: Minimal intent-centric EOA smart account (#696)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7806.md

---
eip: 7806
title: Minimal intent-centric EOA smart account

> description: Minimal effort intent-centric interfaces for EOA account abstraction

Reviewer: > Minimal effort

This doesn't really add a lot of information to the description. It's better to include specific/differentiating features than generally saying "minimal".

Author: Updated 👍

author: hellohanchen (@hellohanchen)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7806-minimal-intent-centric-eoa-smart-account/21565
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-02
requires: 7702
---

## Abstract

> This proposal defines interfaces to build intent-centric smart accounts. EOA account can delegate contract code to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal defines interfaces to build intent-centric smart accounts. An EOA account can delegate contract code to the
```

smart account implementation and sign intents to allow solvers (and relayers) to execute on behalf of account owner.

## Motivation

AA (Account abstraction) is a hot topic in blockchain industry because it gives accounts programmability features,
including but not limited to:

* **BatchExecution**
* **GasSponsorship**

> * **AccessControl**

Reviewer: Why are these joined into single words? If they are code (and I don't believe they are), you should put them in backticks (\`). Otherwise, put a space between the words.

Author: Updated 👍

  Plugins ([ERC-6900](./eip-6900.md), [ERC-7579](./eip-7579.md). Services like bundler requires high engineer skills and
  heavy overhead work to run and maintain.
* **Compatibility**: Compatibility issue between components forces developers to upgrade multiple smart contracts within
  one version update, also divides the ecosystem.
* **Cost**: `UserOperation` processing costs high gas units.
* **Trust**: Although this standard is designed to be permissionless, there are still centralized processes. Paymaster
  is usually a centralized service because it needs to either trust the account owner to repay the sponsored gas.
  Bundlers are running on MEV based and accounts need to trust bundler providers to include their user operations in the
  transaction.

[ERC-7521](./eip-7521.md) discusses an SCA solution with intent-centric design. It enables solvers to fulfill account
owners' intents by acting "on behalf of" account owners. ERC-7521 allows arbitrary intents and verification logics while
trying to keep the whole solution forward-compatible.

With `SET_CODE_TX_TYPE=0x04` allowing EOA accounts to set contract code, EOA accounts will gain similar programmability

> as SCA (Smart Contact Account). A new standard, that provides EOA with highly-demanded AA features while potentially

Reviewer: You should move this expansion "SCA (Smart Contract Account)" to the first time the abbreviation is used (line 42-ish).

Author: Updated 👍

resolving some of the above challenges, will help bring in seamless user experience and drive mass adoptions.

The above EIPs inspired the author to build an intent-centric standard for EOA smart accounts.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT
RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> ### UserIntent bytes

Reviewer: If "UserIntent" is the name of a Solidity type:

```suggestion
### `UserIntent` bytes
```

Author: Updated 👍

|----------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sender`       | `address` | The wallet making the intent                                                                                                                             |
| `standard`     | `address` | The `IStandard` implementation to validate and parse this `UserIntent`                                                                                   |
| `header`       | `bytes`   | The metadata of this `UserIntent`, used by `standard`, using `bytes` type to keep flexibility                                                            |
| `instructions` | `bytes[]` | The detailed content of this `UserIntent`, used by `standard` to determine the `Operation`s need to be executing, using `bytes` type to keep flexibility |
| `signatures`   | `bytes[]` | Validatable signatures, used by `standard`                                                                                                               |

> But using `bytes[]` on functional interface is heavy especially when multiple intents are compound together. Therefore,
> the "UserIntent" object is designed to be a pack-encoded `bytes calldata userIntent` contains the above information

Reviewer: This paragraph is mixing rationale with specification. In the Specification section, you should only describe the behaviour:

```suggestion
The `UserIntent` object is pack-encoded into `bytes calldata userIntent` containing the above information as shown below:
```

Then the reasoning can be moved into the Rationale section.

Author: Updated 👍

| Section                         | Value Type | Description                                                     |
|---------------------------------|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| userIntent[0:20]                | `address`  | sender                                                          |

> | userIntent[20:40]               | `address`  | standard                                                        |

Reviewer: You might want to expand "standard" here again.

Author: The "standard" here refers to the "standard" in the above table. I can add more descriptions if needed.

| userIntent[40:42]               | `uint16`   | Length of header                                                |
| userIntent[42:44]               | `uint16`   | Length of instructions                                          |
| userIntent[44:46]               | `uint16`   | Length of signatures                                            |
| Next `headerLength` bytes       | `bytes`    | The actual header                                               |
| Next `instructionsLength` bytes | `bytes`    | The actual instructions                                         |
| Next `signatureLength` bytes    | `bytes`    | The actual signatures                                           |
| Anything left                   | `bytes`    | Extra data, e.g. nested intent to be executed within the intent |

> The above schema is NOT REQUIRED for all implementations. Each `IAccount` and `IStandard` can fully determine their own way of handling the `bytes` data. In the above example, the fields can be used in this way

Reviewer: You should make it clear _before_ introducing the table that the encoding is only an example and is not required by the standard. I'd even go a step further and put the optional content into a subsection.

Author: I've move the section before the table 🙏

* `header`: The `bytes header` can carry information about how to validate the intent or how to prevent
  double-spending. For example, `header` can contain an `uint256 nonce` to check if the `nonce` is used already.
* `instructions`: These `bytes instructions` can just be concatenated `(address,value,calldata)` or can be
  standardized values, for example `(erc20TokenAddress,1000)` means the `instructions` can use up to 1000 of the
  specified [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) token. It is NOT REQUIRED that all `instructions` MUST be provided by the EOA owner to allow dynamically carry out other operations during intent executions, but the `IStandard` design needs to carefully handle this case.
* `signatures`: The `bytes signatures` field can support different signing methods. It is NOT REQUIRED that
  all `signatures` MUST be provided by the EOA owner, some of them MAY be provided by solver, relayer or anyone else.

> ### IStandard interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `IStandard` interface
```

Author: Updated 👍

Each standard defines how to parse and validate a user intent, it implements the following `IStandard` interface:

```solidity
interface IStandard {
    /**
     * Validate user's intent
     *
     * @dev returning validation result, the type uses bytes4 for extensibility purpose
     * @return result values representing validation outcomes
     */
    function validateUserIntent(bytes calldata intent) external view returns (bytes4 result);

    /**
     * Unpack user's intent, it is RECOMMENDED to validate intent while unpacking to save gas
     *
     * @dev returning unpacked result, the type uses bytes for extensibility purpose
     * @return result unpacked result status
     * @return operations unpacked operations that can be executed by the IAccount, NOT REQUIRED to match UserIntent.instructions
     */
    function unpackOperations(bytes calldata intent) external view returns (bytes4 memory result, bytes[] memory operations);
}
```

> Notice that `IStandard` fully controls the validation process, similar to `EntryPoint` in ERC-4337 and ERC-7521,

Reviewer: > [...] be pre-audited [...]

We try to keep standards focused on the observable behaviour of the contracts. Auditing and testing and the like aren't necessary for a contract to be compliant with the standard (and aren't enforceable at all) so you should leave them out of the document.

Author: Updated 👍

each `IStandard` implementation MUST be pre-audited and SHOULD NOT be upgradable.

> ### IAccount interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `IAccount` interface
```

Author: Updated 👍

responsibility to delegate to a safe `IAccount` implementation.

It is RECOMMENDED that each account leverages `IStandard` to validate and unpack operations, check **Reference
Implementation** for examples. Account smart contract can be stateless to avoid sharing storage space with other delegated contracts.

### Usage of Bytes

There are many objects defined with `bytes` type for extensibility, future-compatibility purpose. All those objects are
optional and their usages depends on `IStandard` and `IAccount` implementation.

## Rationale

> The main challenge with a generalized intent standard is being able to adapt to the evolving world of intents. Users
> need to have a way to express their intents in a seamless way without having to make constant updates to their smart
> contract wallets. --- ERC-7521

The interface designs proposed in this EIP is inspired by ERC-7521, and the author tries to avoid turning EIP into a

> real implementation.

Reviewer: You don't need to quote 7521 here. Just write your rationale describing the decisions made within this document. If you're going to point to another EIP in this section, that is a hint that you're not actually writing content appropriate for the Rational section. My favourite analogy is:

> Motivation: We need to build a shed because...
> Rationale: We painted the shed red because...

Author: Updated 👍

the account as EOA.

### Validation in standard contract

Validation logic commonly relies on contract state, for example, weighted multi-owner signature needs to track the
weight of each signer. Keeping the functionality of intent validate purely inside `IStandard` makes it similar to
the `EntryPoint` concept in ERC-4337, but a simpler version. Standard only taking responsibility of validation makes it
easier for contract engineer to build, audit and maintain.

Also, the `IStandard` interface can be considered as "modular". There can be a "compound" standard that
breaks one intent into smaller pieces and call other standards to validate each piece and later combine the results
together.

### Gas abstraction

This design allows any address to initiate transaction on behalf of the intent's sender, providing a gasless experience. The sender can define the "payment" to the sender in intent header or instruction, with transfers any token from the sender's account to `tx.origin`.

### Auditability of both validation and execution

It is very important both the standard and account implementation can be publicly audited and shared. The most important

> reason is security. And this can also help mediate the compatibility issues between standard and account.

Reviewer: This is more content for the security considerations section.

Author: Updated 👍

### Solver is relayer, relayer is paymaster, paymaster is bundler

Within a intent-centric system, solvers are helping account owners to fulfill the intent and solvers are rewarded. This
proposal allows any solver to execute the intent, bringing a positive competitive environment. And supported by gas
abstraction, solvers will pay the native token as gas fee and take other tokens back from the EOA account. Besides,
solvers can further reduce the cost of their side by bundling multiple intent executions into one blockchain

> transaction.

Author: Moved this section to `Motivation` 🙏

Each solver needs to develop its own strategy to maximize its profit. And this EIP doesn't define anything about how a
solver executes the intents, meaning there is no limitation.

### Intents can be rewarded, repeatable

And another fact, which is easy to be ignored, is that intent has value by itself. For example, if an EOA is always
willing to swap 1000 USDC to 1000 USDT and vice versa, this EOA will be considered as a "liquidity provider" in the
market. The account can send the signed intent to exchanges and make the exchange reward the account every time the

> intent is executed.

Reviewer: This is again more relevant to Motivation. You aren't explaining any choices made within this document, so it doesn't belong in Rationale.

Author: Updated to be `No re-entry protection enforced`

        (bytes4 validationCode, bytes[] memory instructions) = IStandard(standard).unpackOperations(intent);
        require(validationCode == VALIDATION_APPROVED, "Validation failed");

        // batch execute
        for (uint256 i = 0; i < instructions.length; i++) {
            (address dest, uint256 value, bytes memory data) = abi.decode(instructions[i], (address, uint256, bytes));

            (bool success,) = dest.call{value : value, gas : gasleft()}(data);
            if (!success) {
                revert SelfExecutableAccount.ExecutionError();
            }
        }

        return new bytes(0);
    }

    receive() external payable {}
}
```

As shown above, the implementation of `IAccount` is stateless and simple, so that it can be compatible with different `IStandard`. 
While the `IStandard` implementation is complex because it needs to define its own schema. But both contracts will be public 
and audited, to ensure the security of intent execution.

## Security Considerations

This is mainly controlled by the standard and account implementation to make sure the account is safe. Solver needs to
responsible for its own security when executing intents.

> More discussion needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More discussion needed. <!-- TODO -->
```

Author: Updated 🙏

| `instructions` | `bytes[]` | The execution details of the `UserIntent`, interpreted by `standard`. Stored as `bytes[]` to allow flexibility. |
| `signatures`   | `bytes[]` | Validatable signatures required for execution, interpreted by `standard`.                                       |

#### Fields Explanations

* `header`: The `bytes header` can carry information about how to validate the intent or how to prevent
  double-spending. For example, `header` can contain an `uint256 nonce` to check if the `nonce` is used already.
* `instructions`: These `bytes instructions` can just be concatenated `(address,value,calldata)` or can be
  standardized values, for example `(erc20TokenAddress,1000)` means the `instructions` can use up to 1000 of the
  specified [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) token. It is NOT REQUIRED that all `instructions` MUST be provided by the EOA owner to allow dynamically carry out other operations during intent executions, but the `IStandard` design needs to carefully handle this case.
* `signatures`: The `bytes signatures` field can support different signing methods. It is NOT REQUIRED that

>   all `signatures` MUST be provided by the EOA owner, some of them MAY be provided by solver, relayer or anyone else.

Author: My idea is that the `UserIntent` MUST contain those fields but the actual implementation (how to encode/decode those values) is left to the developers to decide.

Add interface methods like 
```
function getSender(bytes calldata intent) pure returns (address)
function getStandard(bytes calldata intent) pure returns (address)
function getHeader(bytes calldata intent) pure returns (bytes memory)
function getInstructions(bytes calldata intent) pure returns (bytes memory)
function getSignature(bytes calldata intent) pure returns (bytes memory)
```

Should make it more clear, thanks for the suggestion!
